This was a group project created by several University of Wisconsin Madison students for the class CS 506 (Software engineering). The members of this group are listed as follows: Alex Arovas, Cameron Ruggles, Ethan Geoffrey Wijaya, Lao Chang, and Mikkel Hindsbo. 

The goal of the project was to create a chess engine that is capable of communicating with the UCI (Universal Chess Interface) commonly used by chess GUIs. It was tested against various bots on chess.com and was found to consistently beat those rated 1500. 

To interact with the engine, you can run CommandLine.py to interact with the engine through a command line interface in accordance with UCI commands. The UCI commands are listed on this webpage: https://www.wbec-ridderkerk.nl/html/UCIProtocol.html. Another, slightly more intuitive way to play against the engine is to run GameDemo.py. This lets you input moves into the console and view a representation of the chess board printed onto the console. Moves must be input in long algebraic notation, described in the UCI page linked above. However, it must be noted that there are still some unresolved bugs in GameDemo.py as of the time this repository was saved.

This repository is a copy of the latest version of the project that was presented in a final demo to course staff. Unfortunately, I was not able to retain the different commits and branches as the original project was stored in a school gitlab which I lost access to after graduation. I'm currently trying to see if I can get access to the original gitlab repository so that I can preserve the various commits, merges, and different contributions of every group member.

My contributions to this project are mostly centered on two files: generateTree.py and MiniMax.py. I also worked on MiniMaxDemo.py and testGenerateTree.py but those two files are not relevant to the chess engine itself, rather they are important for demoing and testing.
generateTree was a file I created and worked on for the majority of the project's lifespan. The important methods I didn't work on are is_capture() and move_ordering().
MiniMax was a file created by a groupmate which I made large contributions to. My contributions to this file mostly consist of UCI integration, which includes methods such as ponder() or set_time(). The methods which I didn't make major contributions to are as follows: (generate_tree, run, stop, change_board_or_max_depth, restart_generation, is_generating).
